README.md, before:

I18n asset-pipeline plugin
==========================

The Grails plugin `i18n-asset-pipeline` is an asset-pipeline plugin that
generates a JavaScript file with localized texts which can be used for
client-side i18n.

For more information on how to use asset-pipeline, visit
[asset-pipeline project page][asset-pipeline].

Usage
-----

`i18n-asset-pipeline` uses special files in your standard
`grails-app/assets/javascripts` folder with extension '.i18n'.  The names of
these files must contain a language specification separated by underscore, e.
g. `messages_de.i18n` or `messages_en_UK.i18n`.  Files without a language
specification (e. g. `messages.i18n`) are files for the default locale.  These
files mainly contain message codes that are resolved to localized texts.

The plugin generates a JavaScript file, that contains a function named `$L`
which can be called to obtain the localized message by a given code, e. g.:

```javascript
$(".btn").text($L("default.btn.ok"));
```

I18n file syntax
----------------

Each i18n file must be defined according to the following rules:

* Files are line based.
* Lines are trimmed (i. e. leading and terminating whitespaces are removed).
* Empty lines and lines starting with a hash `#` (comment lines) are ignored.
* Lines starting with `@import` *`url`* are resolved by importing file
  *`url`*, processing it according to these rules, and replacing the
  `@import` statement by its content.  The import file may contain further
  import statements, even circular ones.  You may omit file extension `.i18n`
  in *`url`*.
* All other lines are treated as messsage codes which are translated to the
  required language.  Comments after message codes are not allowed.

Each i18n file may contain asset-pipeline `require` statements to load other
assets such as JavaScript files.  **ATTENTION!** Don't use `require` to load
other i18n files because they will not be processed correctly.  Use the
`@import` declaration instead.

Typical file structure
----------------------

Typically, you have one i18n file for each language in the application.  Given,
you have the following message resources in `grails-app/i18n`:

* `messages.properties`
* `messages_de.properties`
* `messages_en_UK.properties`
* `messages_es.properties`
* `messages_fr.properties`

Then, you should have the same set of files in `grails-app/assets/javascripts`:

* `messages.i18n`
* `messages_de.i18n`
* `messages_en_UK.i18n`
* `messages_es.i18n`
* `messages_fr.i18n`

Normally, you would have to declare the same set of message codes in each file.
To DRY, add a file `_messages.i18n` to `grails-app/assets/javascripts`:

```
#
# _messages.i18n
# List of message codes that should be available on client-side.
#


# Add your messages codes here:
default.btn.cancel
default.btn.ok
contact.foo.bar

```

Then, you can import this file in all other files, e. g. in `messages_de.i18n`:

```
#
# messages_de.i18n
# Client-side i18n, German messages.
#

@import _messages

```

Including localized assets
--------------------------

In order to include a localized asset you can either use an asset-pipeline
`require` directive or the tag `<asset:i18n>`.  The tag supports the following
attributes:

* `locale`.  Either a string or a `java.util.Locale` object reprenting the
  locale that should be loaded.  This attribute is mandatory.
* `name`.  A string indicating the base name of the i18n files to load
  (defaults to `messages`).

Examples:

```html
<asset:i18n locale="en_UK" />
```

```html
<asset:i18n locale="${locale}" />
```

Author
------

This plugin was written by [Daniel Ellermann](mailto:d.ellermann@amc-world.de).

License
-------

This plugin was published under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0][apache-license].

[apache-license]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[asset-pipeline]: http://www.github.com/bertramdev/asset-pipeline

Commit message:

Compatibility with asset-pipeline 2.0
I make some minor changes for compatibility with asset-pipeline 2.0
after including pull request #2.  I update the README.md file, authors
in the source files, and version statements.

README.md, after:

I18n asset-pipeline plugin
==========================

The Grails plugin `i18n-asset-pipeline` is an asset-pipeline plugin that
generates a JavaScript file with localized texts which can be used for
client-side i18n.

For more information on how to use asset-pipeline, visit
[asset-pipeline project page][asset-pipeline].

Version information
-------------------

Because `asset-pipeline` 2.0.0 introduced a new API and isn't backward
compatible, you must use the following versions of this plugin:

* for `asset-pipeline` up to version 1.9.9 use version 0.9.0 of this plugin
* for `asset-pipeline` version 2.0.0 or higher use version 1.0.0 of this plugin

Usage
-----

`i18n-asset-pipeline` uses special files in your standard
`grails-app/assets/javascripts` folder with extension '.i18n'.  The names of
these files must contain a language specification separated by underscore, e.
g. `messages_de.i18n` or `messages_en_UK.i18n`.  Files without a language
specification (e. g. `messages.i18n`) are files for the default locale.  These
files mainly contain message codes that are resolved to localized texts.

The plugin generates a JavaScript file, that contains a function named `$L`
which can be called to obtain the localized message by a given code, e. g.:

```javascript
$(".btn").text($L("default.btn.ok"));
```

I18n file syntax
----------------

Each i18n file must be defined according to the following rules:

* Files are line based.
* Lines are trimmed (i. e. leading and terminating whitespaces are removed).
* Empty lines and lines starting with a hash `#` (comment lines) are ignored.
* Lines starting with `@import` *`url`* are resolved by importing file
  *`url`*, processing it according to these rules, and replacing the
  `@import` statement by its content.  The import file may contain further
  import statements, even circular ones.  You may omit file extension `.i18n`
  in *`url`*.
* All other lines are treated as messsage codes which are translated to the
  required language.  Comments after message codes are not allowed.

Each i18n file may contain asset-pipeline `require` statements to load other
assets such as JavaScript files.  **ATTENTION!** Don't use `require` to load
other i18n files because they will not be processed correctly.  Use the
`@import` declaration instead.

Typical file structure
----------------------

Typically, you have one i18n file for each language in the application.  Given,
you have the following message resources in `grails-app/i18n`:

* `messages.properties`
* `messages_de.properties`
* `messages_en_UK.properties`
* `messages_es.properties`
* `messages_fr.properties`

Then, you should have the same set of files in `grails-app/assets/javascripts`:

* `messages.i18n`
* `messages_de.i18n`
* `messages_en_UK.i18n`
* `messages_es.i18n`
* `messages_fr.i18n`

Normally, you would have to declare the same set of message codes in each file.
To DRY, add a file `_messages.i18n` to `grails-app/assets/javascripts`:

```
#
# _messages.i18n
# List of message codes that should be available on client-side.
#

# Add your messages codes here:
default.btn.cancel
default.btn.ok
contact.foo.bar

```

Then, you can import this file in all other files, e. g. in `messages_de.i18n`:

```
#
# messages_de.i18n
# Client-side i18n, German messages.
#

@import _messages

```

Including localized assets
--------------------------

In order to include a localized asset you can either use an asset-pipeline
`require` directive or the tag `<asset:i18n>`.  The tag supports the following
attributes:

* `locale`.  Either a string or a `java.util.Locale` object reprenting the
  locale that should be loaded.  This attribute is mandatory.
* `name`.  A string indicating the base name of the i18n files to load
  (defaults to `messages`).

Examples:

```html
<asset:i18n locale="en_UK" />
```

```html
<asset:i18n name="texts" locale="${locale}" />
```

Author
------

This plugin was written by [Daniel Ellermann](mailto:d.ellermann@amc-world.de).

License
-------

This plugin was published under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0][apache-license].

[apache-license]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[asset-pipeline]: http://www.github.com/bertramdev/asset-pipeline
